workers: new Databases sidebar section (#8914)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/databases/connecting-to-databases.md

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Connecting to databases
weight: 1
---

# Connecting to databases

Cloudflare Workers can connect to and query your data in both SQL and NoSQL databases, including:

* Traditional hosted relational databases, including Postgres and MySQL
* Serverless databases: Supabase, MongoDB Atlas, PlanetScale, FaunaDB, and Prisma
* Cloudflare's own [D1](/d1/), a serverless SQL-based database

> ## Ways to connect
> 
> There are three ways to connect to a database from a Worker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connect to a database from a Worker

There are three ways to connect to a database from a Worker:
```

> 1. [Database Integrations](/workers/learning/integrations/databases/#native-database-integrations-beta), which simply authentication by managing credentials on your behalf and includes support for PlanetScale, Neon and Supabase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Database Integrations](/workers/learning/integrations/databases/#native-database-integrations-beta): Simplifies authentication by managing credentials on your behalf and includes support for PlanetScale, Neon and Supabase.
```

> 2. [TCP Socket API](/workers/runtime-apis/tcp-sockets): a direct TCP connection to a database. TCP is the de-facto standard protocol that many databases, such as [PostgreSQL](/workers/databases/connect-to-postgres/) and MySQL, use for client connectivity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [TCP Socket API](/workers/runtime-apis/tcp-sockets): A direct TCP connection to a database. TCP is the de-facto standard protocol that many databases, such as [PostgreSQL](/workers/databases/connect-to-postgres/) and MySQL, use for client connectivity.
```

> 3. HTTP- or WebSocket-based [serverless drivers](/workers/learning/integrations/databases/): many hosted databases support a HTTP or WebSocket API to enable either clients to connect from environments that don't support TCP, or as their preferred connection protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. HTTP- or WebSocket-based [serverless drivers](/workers/learning/integrations/databases/): Many hosted databases support a HTTP or WebSocket API to enable either clients to connect from environments that do not support TCP, or as their preferred connection protocol.
```

# Connecting to databases

Cloudflare Workers can connect to and query your data in both SQL and NoSQL databases, including:

* Traditional hosted relational databases, including Postgres and MySQL
* Serverless databases: Supabase, MongoDB Atlas, PlanetScale, FaunaDB, and Prisma
* Cloudflare's own [D1](/d1/), a serverless SQL-based database

## Ways to connect

There are three ways to connect to a database from a Worker:

> 1. [Native integrations](/workers/learning/integrations/databases/#native-database-integrations-beta), which includes support for PlanetScale, Neon and Supabase.

Reviewer 2: _(totally non-blocking last-minute comment)_

1. These integrations also use serverless drivers
2. What meaning is "native" conveying?

Wonder if:

a. might be clearer to just say "Database integrations"
b. be specific about what an integration gives you (automatically adds secrets to your Worker)

cc @tanushree-sharma

Author: That's fair - I'm trying to avoid  "Integrations" from looking like the only supported databases.

Let me rewrite a little to make that clearer w.r.t. the credential management.

Author: Tweaked this a bit more.

Reviewer 3: It was hard to get the language right since we already had a Integrations > Databases. Native being "this is an officially supported OAuth integration". I want to get rid of native and just say Database Integrations once we do the docs shuffle. I like the framing here
